# Overview

## What is Luthier?

Luthier is a C++ library primarily used to write dynamic binary instrumentation
tools that target AMD GPU device code. It allows a tool writer to:

- Intercept when a kernel is about to be launched by the target host
  application;
- View and analyze the instructions and basic blocks in the intercepted kernel;
- Insert (multiple) calls to instrumentation device functions inside the code
  between instructions.
- Remove/modify/add individual instructions in the intercepted kernel; and
- Query/modify the ISA visible state on the device side.

## What AMD GPU Applications Luthier Supports?

Luthier supports any AMD GPU programming API in Linux that is built on the
[ROCm runtime (ROCr)](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/ROCR-Runtime/).
This should include both frequently used runtimes like HIP, OpenMP, OpenCL, and
even AMDGPU.jl. There are plans to extend support to applications that use
[AMD's userspace kernel driver (KFD)](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/tree/develop/projects/rocr-runtime/libhsakmt)
directly (one example is [SCALE lang](https://scale-lang.com/)). As of
right now Luthier does not support instrumenting graphics workloads. Luthier
is primarily tested on Linux with no current plans to support Windows.

## How does Luthier work?



## How does Luthier differ from NVBit and GTPin?

Luthier works similarly to [NVBit](https://github.com/NVlabs/NVBit) and
[GTPin](https://software.intel.com/sites/landingpage/gtpin/index.html), but with a few key differences in its design
and abstractions to work with AMD GPUs. Primary differences/similarities include:
1. Luthier directly uses the LLVM infrastructure to do its heavy lifting; This includes everything between disassembling
   and generating the final code object that gets loaded onto the device.
2. Unlike NVBit, Luthier does not modify the loaded code object on the device to insert trampoline; Instead, it opts
   to generate new code objects from scratch and loads them instead, while making sure the newly loaded code objects 
   links to the originally loaded code object.
3. Unlike NVBit, but similar to GTPin, Luthier uses JIT compilation for instrumentation.
4. Similar to GTPin, Luthier uses LLVM Machine IR to describe its register constraints to the LLVM CodeGen pipeline. 
   NVBit, on the other hand, works by figuring out the number of registers in use by the function, and spills them to 
   the local memory regardless.
5. Luthier tools are programmed in a similar fashion to NVBit/GTPin tools, as in  GTPin allows injection of device functions, but 