# The HSA Library And the HSA Tooling Library

[Heterogeneous Systems Architecture (HSA)](https://hsafoundation.com/)
implementation of AMD, which is currently found under the
`rocr` project in the
[ROCm Systems Repository](https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems),
is the low-level runtime used by standard ROCm applications to interface with
AMD GPUs. Luthier uses HSA and ROCm's `rocprofiler-sdk` to capture, query,
and manipulate the state of the HSA runtime for instrumentation. It also uses
HSA directly for internal component and integration testing.

In Luthier, functionality related to HSA is broken down into two separate
libraries:

1. The [`HSA`](../src/lib/HSA) library, which provides a thin C++ wrapper
   around HSA APIs and types. The goal of the HSA wrapper is as follows:
   - Make development of C++ code easier and more convenient than the plain
     C-API provided by HSA.
   - Enforce invocation of HSA APIs via the HSA API table which is provided
     by `rocprofiler-sdk` (
     See [Intercept Table](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/rocprofiler-sdk/en/latest/api-reference/rocprofiler-sdk_api/modules/intercept_table.html#_CPPv434rocprofiler_intercept_library_cb_t)
     `rocprofiler-sdk` documentation).
2. The [`HSATooling`](../src/lib/HSATooling) library, which combine
   `HSA` and Luthier's `CodeGen` libraries to provide components directly used
   for instrumenting ROCm applications (e.g., `Context`, `PacketMonitor` etc.).

As Luthier tools will have to use the HSA API tables provided by
`rocprofiler-sdk` to invoke HSA functionality, they are not directly linked
against HSA. They must only use HSA headers. Luthier stand-alone tests are
linked directly against HSA, as they are the primary users of HSA unlike Luthier
tools.

## HSA Interceptor

## How Packets Are 